I served as an elder until the end of 2014, and that's when some problems came up and
I ended up being disqualified.
I had already been serving as an elder for nearly two years, but at the time I felt that
the best thing to do would be to stop and give up my privilege of service so I could care
for myself emotionally.
Before I lost my privileges, my qualifications were reviewed by the elders on three separate
occasions, and that ended up dampening my desire to want to serve again in the future.
I began thinking, published to receive the same reward as an elder, so why should I put
myself through that all over again?
When you resign or are disqualified from serving as an elder, you're not immune to feeling
like you're a failure, feeling sad, and especially feeling that you've let your hover down.
And it's a fight to remain active.
One of the biggest things that helped me during that phase was my wife's support.
She believed in me and helped motivate me.
My wife was already a pioneer, and she encouraged me to start pioneering too.
So within just a few months, I had already started serving as a pioneer.
It was in the ministry that I began to cultivate and desire to serve once again as an elder.
Getting involved in activities with the congregation, helping out with the cleaning.
Being with my wife in the preaching work, conducting Bible studies.
I had a lot of help from the brothers who cried with me when I needed to cry.
And who laughed with me when it was possible to laugh.
On mature elder helped me to see that I needed to leave the matter in Jehovah's hands.
That time period when I stopped serving as an elder, I can say that that may have been
when I prayed the most in all my life.
I still wasn't an elder, but I felt at peace.
I remembered first John 320 that Jehovah is greater than our hearts and that he knew what
I was going through.
And just because I wasn't serving any longer as an elder, that didn't make Jehovah love
me any less.
That helped me a lot.
The most difficult thing to overcome was really the resentment that I felt towards some
brothers who had participated in the whole process.
The scripture at Psalm 119, 165, helped me to see that when you're going through a difficult
situation, that's the time that you need to show that you love Jehovah.
I could see that during that time of my life, that's when I had the show that I really
love Jehovah.
I would pray to Jehovah each and every day, and I would mention those brothers by name.
That helped me to start softening my heart to lesson and eventually to eliminate this
resentment.
Trusting in Jehovah was so worth it.
And I felt like it was a great act of love on his part, to allow me once again to serve
as an elder.
And if as if he told me, Marcelo, I trusted you are going to do a good job as an elder.
We just have to trust in Jehovah.
When I began to show more trust, that's when things started happening in a way that I
couldn't have imagined.
In less than two years, I had already began serving as an elder again.
And in 2016, we received an invitation to serve at Bethel.
My wife and I have now been serving here at Bethel for a little more than ten years.
When you accept the discipline, then you stop thinking about privileges and start thinking
more about the brothers and about being more involved in the ministry.
I still had the most important privilege, that of being one of Jehovah's Witnesses.